docs: design doc for the revamp of the running time calculation (#168)
OpenRailAssociation/osrd-website: content/docs/reference/design-docs/train-sim-v3/_index.en.md

      the end result is quite brittle.

- how much time should be lost and where isn't defined in a way that makes scheduled points implementation easy
- when a transition between two margin values occurs, slow downs occur before value changes, and speed ups
  after value changes. This is nice in theory, because it makes the graphs look nicer. The downside is that it
  makes margin values interdependent at each slow-down, as how much speed needs to be lost affects the time lost
  in the section.

### Input modeling

With the previous implementation, the simulation takes sequence of constraint position and speed curves as an input
(continuous in position, can be discontinuous in speed), and produces a continuous curve.

The output is fine, but the input is troublesome:

- braking curves have to be part of constraint curves
- these constraint curves don't have a direct match with actual constraints, such as speed limits, stops, or reaction to signal
- constraints cannot evolve over time, and cannot be interpreted differently depending on when the train reached these constraints
- constraints cannot overlap. the input is pre-processed to filter out obscured constraints

> ## Design specification

Reviewer: We could maybe specify what attributes we consider to be in the train state.

We could also put in this chapter the results of the design decisions concerning unifying driver behavior and margin distribution, as well as the interfacing between driving behavior, driving instructions and numerical integration

```mermaid
flowchart TD
subgraph Input
    InitTrainState[initial train state]
    PathPhysicsProps[path physics properties]
    AbstractDrivingInstructions[abstract driving instructions]
    TargetSchedule[target schedule]
end

DrivingInstructionCompiler([driving instruction compiler])
ConcreteDrivingInstructions[driving instructions + limits]
ScheduleController([schedule controller])
DriverBehaviorModule([driver behavior module])

TargetSchedule --> ScheduleController
ScheduleController -- adjusts slowdown coefficient --> DriverBehaviorModule
AbstractDrivingInstructions --> DrivingInstructionCompiler
PathPhysicsProps --> DrivingInstructionCompiler
ScheduleController -- tracks train state --> TrainSim

DriverBehaviorModule -- makes decisions --> TrainSim
ConcreteDrivingInstructions ---> DriverBehaviorModule
DrivingInstructionCompiler ---> ConcreteDrivingInstructions

InitTrainState ---> ScheduleController

TrainSim --> SimResults

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subgraph output
    SimResults
end

```

TrainSim([train simulator])
SimResults[simulation result curve]
```

### Driving instructions

Driving instructions model what the train has to do, and under what conditions.
Driving instructions are generated using domain constraints such as:

- unsignaled line speed limits
- permanent signaled speed limits
- temporary speed limits
- dynamic signaling:
  - block / moving block
  - dynamically signaled speed restrictions
- neutral zones
- stops
- margins

There are two types of driving instructions:

- **Abstract driving instructions** model the high-level, rolling stock independent
range of acceptable behavior: reach 30km/h at this location
- **Concrete driving instructions** model the specific range of acceptable behavior
for a specific rolling stock, using limit curves: don't go faster than this curve

```mermaid
flowchart TD

> Constraint[constraint]

Reviewer: Constraints are introduced here but not in the upper diagram, what are their relation ?

RollingStockIntegrator[rolling stock integrator]
Compiler([compiler])

Constraint -- generates one or more --> AbstractDrivingInstruction
AbstractDrivingInstruction --> Compiler
RollingStockIntegrator --> Compiler
Compiler --> ConcreteDrivingInstruction
```

#### Interpreting driving instructions

During the simulation, driving instructions are partitionned into 4 sets:

- `PENDING` instructions may apply at some point in the future
- `RECEIVED` instructions aren't enforced yet, but will be unless overridden
- `ENFORCED` instructions influence train behavior
- `DISABLED` instructions don't ever have to be considered anymore. There are multiple ways instructions can be disabled:
  - `SKIPPED` instructions were not received
  - `RETIRED` instructions expired by themselves
  - `OVERRIDEN` instructions were removed by another instruction

```mermaid
flowchart TD

subgraph disabled
    skipped
    retired
    overriden
end

subgraph active
    received
    enforced
end

pending --> received
pending --> skipped
received --> enforced
received --> overriden
enforced --> retired
enforced --> overriden
```

These sets evolve as follows:

> - when an integration steps overlaps a `PENDING` instruction's received condition, it is `RECEIVED` and becomes a candidate to execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when a train state overlaps a `PENDING` instruction's received condition, it is `RECEIVED` and becomes a candidate to execution
```

  - existing instructions may be `OVERRIDEN` due to an `override_on_received` operation
- if an instruction cannot ever be received at any future simulation state, it transitions to the `SKIPPED` state
- when simulation state exceeds an instruction's enforcement position, it becomes `ENFORCED`. Only enforced instructions influence train behavior.
  - existing instructions may be `OVERRIDEN` due to an `override_on_enforced` operation
- when simulation state exceeds an instruction's retirement position, it becomes `RETIRED`

> #### Overrides

Reviewer: This is quite a rich algorithm maybe we'd need a set of examples to explain why each detail of the automaton is needed, and why they're sufficient
Maybe we could do that when it's implemented and we have a better understanding of it.

When an instruction transitions to the `RECEIVED` or `ENFORCED` state, it can disable active instructions
which match some metadata predicate. There are two metadata attributes which can be relied on for overrides:

- the `kind` allows overriding previous instructions for a given domain, such as spacing or block signaled speed limits
- the `rank` can be used as a "freshness" or "priority" field. If two instructions overriding each other are received

>   (such as when a train sees two signals), the rank allows deciding which instruction should be prioritized.

Reviewer: Just a remark: I don't remember the ranking system from our meetings, but I think it'd be better to have another system for priority resolving. Using ints rather than something semantically meaningful seems flaky to me. Maybe we'll find something different when implementing.

Reviewer 2: I do remember we explored a number of other options. I can add a section about what I remember of this debate. We didn't really _like_ this solution, but every other was either way worse or did not work.

Reviewer: The decision process is documented a bit further down in the doc I believe
